4THE CREATION OF AN EMPIRE: 
The Mughal Dynasty 4THE CREATION OF AN EMPIRE: 
The Mughal Dynasty 
R
R
uling as large a territory as the Indian subcontinent 
with such a diversity of people and cultures was 
an extremely difficult task for any ruler to accomplish 
in the Middle Ages. Quite in contrast to their 
predecessors, the Mughals created an empire and 
accomplished what had hitherto seemed possible for 
only short periods of time. From the latter half of the 
sixteenth century they expanded their kingdom from 
Agra and Delhi until in the seventeenth century they 
controlled nearly all of the subcontinent. They imposed 
structures of administration and ideas of governance 
that outlasted their rule, leaving a political legacy that 
succeeding rulers of the subcontinent could not ignore. 
Today the Prime Minister of India addresses the nation 
from the ramparts of the Red Fort in Delhi, the residence 
of the Mughal emperors, on Independence Day. 

Fig. 1 
The Red Fort. 


45


THE MUGHAL DYNASTY 


Who were the Mughals? 


? 
Do you think this 
painting suggests 
that the Mughals 
claimed kingship 
as a birthright? 

The Mughals were descendants of two great lineages of 
rulers. From their mother’s side they were descendants 
of Genghis Khan (died 1227), ruler of the Mongol tribes, 
China and Central Asia. From their father’s side they 
were the successors of Timur (died 1404), the ruler of 
Iran, Iraq and modern-day Turkey. However, the 
Mughals did not like to be called Mughal or Mongol. 
This was because Genghis Khan’s memory was 
associated with the massacre of innumerable people. 
It was also linked with the Uzbegs, their Mongol 
competitors. On the other hand, the Mughals were 

Fig. 2 
A miniature painting (dated 1702-1712) of Timur, his descendants 
and the Mughal emperors. Timur is in the centre and on his right is 
his son Miran Shah (the first Mughal emperor Babur’s great-greatgrandfather) 
and then Abu Said (Babur’s grandfather). To the left of 
Timur are Sultan Muhammad Mirza (Babur’s great-grandfather) and 
Umar Shaikh (Babur’s father). The Mughal emperors Babur, Akbar 
and Shah Jahan are the third, fourth and fifth individuals on 
Timur’s right and on his left, in the same order, are Humayun, 
Jahangir and Aurangzeb. 


OUR PASTS — II 46 


proud of their Timurid ancestry, not least of all because 
their great ancestor had captured Delhi in 1398. 

They celebrated their genealogy pictorially, each ruler 
getting a picture made of Timur and himself. Take a 
look at Figure 1, which is somewhat like a “group 
photograph”. 

Mughal militarycampaigns 

Babur, the first Mughal emperor (15261530), 
succeeded to the throne of 
Ferghana in 1494 when he was only 
12 years old. He was forced to leave 
his ancestral throne due to the invasion 
of another Mongol group, the Uzbegs. 
After years of wandering he seized 
Kabul in 1504. In 1526 he defeated the 
Sultan of Delhi, Ibrahim Lodi, at 
Panipat and captured Delhi and Agra. 

Table 1 charts some of the major 
campaigns of the Mughals. Study it carefully and see if 
you can notice any long-term patterns. You will notice, 

for example, that the 


Afghans were an 
immediate threat to 
Mughal authority. Note 
the relationship between 
the Mughals and the 
Ahoms (see also Chapter 
7), the Sikhs (see also 
Chapters 8 and 10), and 
Mewar and Marwar (see 
also Chapter 9). How 
was Humayun’s 
relationship with Safavid 
Iran different from 
Akbar’s? Did the 
annexation of Golconda 
and Bijapur in 

Aurangzeb’s reign end

47 

hostilities in the Deccan? 


Fig. 3 
Mughal army on 
campaign. 

Fig. 4 
Cannons were an 
important addition in 
sixteenth century 
warfare. Babur used 
them effectively at the 
first battle of Panipat. 

THE MUGHAL DYNASTY 


Table 1 
Table 1Table 1Table 1Table 1Table 1 

mughal emperors 


Major campaigns and events 

BABUR
BABURBABURBABURBABURBABUR 1526-1530 
1526-15301526-15301526-15301526-15301526-15301526 – defeated Ibrahim Lodi and his Afghan supporters at 
Panipat. 
1527 – defeated Rana Sanga, Rajput rulers and allies at 
Khanua. 
1528 – defeated the Rajputs at Chanderi. 
Established control over Agra and Delhi before his death. 


HUMAYUN
HUMAYUNHUMAYUNHUMAYUNHUMAYUNHUMAYUN 1530-1540, 1555-1556 
1530-1540, 1555-15561530-1540, 1555-15561530-1540, 1555-15561530-1540, 1555-15561530-1540, 1555-1556 

(1) Humayun divided his inheritance according to the will 
of his father. His brothers were each given a province. 
The ambitions of his brother Mirza Kamran weakened 
Humayun’s cause against Afghan competitors. Sher Khan 
defeated Humayun at Chausa (1539) and Kanauj (1540), 
forcing him to flee to Iran. 

(2) In Iran Humayun received help from the Safavid Shah. 
He recaptured Delhi in 1555 but died in an accident the 
following year. 
AKBAR 
AKBARAKBARAKBARAKBARAKBAR 
1556-1605 
1556-16051556-16051556-16051556-16051556-1605 

Akbar was 13 years old when he became emperor. His 
reign can be divided into three periods. 

(1) 1556-1570 – Akbar became independent of the regent 
Bairam Khan and other members of his domestic staff. 
Military campaigns were launched against the Suris and 
other Afghans, against the neighbouring kingdoms of 
Malwa and Gondwana, and to suppress the revolt of his 
half-brother Mirza Hakim and the Uzbegs. In 1568 the 
Sisodiya capital of Chittor was seized and in 1569 
Ranthambhor. 
(2) 1570-1585 – military campaigns in Gujarat were 
followed by campaigns in the east in Bihar, Bengal and 
Orissa. These campaigns were complicated by the 
1579-1580 revolt in support of Mirza Hakim. 

(3) 1585-1605 – expansion of Akbar’s empire. Campaigns in 
the north-west. Qandahar was seized from the Safavids, 
Kashmir was annexed, as also Kabul, after the death of 
Mirza Hakim. Campaigns in the Deccan started and Berar, 
Khandesh and parts of Ahmadnagar were annexed. 
In the last years of his reign Akbar was distracted by the 
rebellion of Prince Salim, the future Emperor Jahangir. 

OUR PASTS — II 48 


Jahangir 1605-1627 
Jahangir 1605-1627Jahangir 1605-1627Jahangir 1605-1627Jahangir 1605-1627Jahangir 1605-1627 
Military campaigns started by Akbar continued. 
The Sisodiya ruler of Mewar, Amar Singh, accepted 
Mughal service. Less successful campaigns against 
the Sikhs, the Ahoms and Ahmadnagar followed. 

Prince Khurram, the future Emperor Shah Jahan, 
rebelled in the last years of his reign. The efforts of 
Nur Jahan, Jahangir’s wife, to marginalise him were 
unsuccessful. 

Shah Jahan 1627-1658 
Shah Jahan 1627-1658Shah Jahan 1627-1658Shah Jahan 1627-1658Shah Jahan 1627-1658Shah Jahan 1627-1658 
Mughal campaigns continued in the Deccan under 
Shah Jahan. The Afghan noble Khan Jahan Lodi 
rebelled and was defeated. Campaigns were launched 
against Ahmadnagar; the Bundelas were defeated and 
Orchha seized. In the north-west, the campaign to seize 
Balkh from the Uzbegs was unsuccessful and 
Qandahar was lost to the Safavids. In 1632 
Ahmadnagar was finally annexed and the Bijapur 
forces sued for peace. In 1657-1658, there was conflict 
over succession amongst Shah Jahan’s sons. 
Aurangzeb was victorious and his three brothers, 
including Dara Shukoh, were killed. Shah Jahan was 
imprisoned for the rest of his life in Agra. 

Aurangzeb 1658-1707 
Aurangzeb 1658-1707Aurangzeb 1658-1707Aurangzeb 1658-1707Aurangzeb 1658-1707Aurangzeb 1658-1707 

(1) In the north-east, the Ahoms were defeated in 1663, but rebelled again in 
the 1680s. Campaigns in the north-west against the Yusufzai and the Sikhs 
were temporarily successful. Mughal intervention in the 
succession and internal politics of the Rathor Rajputs of 
Marwar led to their rebellion. Campaigns against the 
Maratha chieftain Shivaji were initially successful. But 
Aurangzeb insulted Shivaji who escaped from Agra, 
declared himself an independent king and resumed his 

campaigns against the Mughals. Prince Akbar rebelled 
against Aurangzeb and received support from the 
Marathas and Deccan Sultanate. He finally fled to 
Safavid Iran. 

(2) After Akbar’s rebellion Aurangzeb sent armies against 
the Deccan Sultanates. Bijapur was annexed in 1685 and 
Golcunda in 1687. From 1698 Aurangzeb personally 
managed campaigns in the Deccan against the Marathas 
who started guerrilla warfare. Aurangzeb also had to face the 
rebellion in north India of the Sikhs, Jats and Satnamis, in the north-east 
of the Ahoms and in the Deccan of the Marathas. His death was followed 
by a succession conflict amongst his sons. 


49 THE MUGHAL DYNASTY 


Mughal marriageswith the Rajputs 
The mother of 
Jahangir was 
a Kachhwaha 
princess, daughter 
of the Rajput ruler 
of Amber (modern 
day Jaipur). The 
mother of Shah 
Jahan was a Rathor 
princess, daughter 
of the Rajput ruler 
of Marwar (Jodhpur). 
Map 1Map 1Map 1Map 1Map 1 
Akbar’s reign 1605 
Mughal marriageswith the Rajputs 
The mother of 
Jahangir was 
a Kachhwaha 
princess, daughter 
of the Rajput ruler 
of Amber (modern 
day Jaipur). The 
mother of Shah 
Jahan was a Rathor 
princess, daughter 
of the Rajput ruler 
of Marwar (Jodhpur). 
Map 1Map 1Map 1Map 1Map 1 
Akbar’s reign 1605 
Mughal traditions of succession 

The Mughals did not believe in the rule of primogeniture, 
where the eldest son inherited his father’s estate. Instead 
they followed the Mughal and Timurid custom of 
coparcenary inheritance, or a division of the inheritance 
amongst all the sons. Follow the highlighted passages 
in Table 1, and note the evidence for rebellions 
by Mughal princes. Which do you think is a fairer 
division of inheritance: primogeniture or coparcenary ? 

Mughal relations with other rulers 

Take a look at Table 1 once again. You will notice that 
the Mughal rulers campaigned constantly against 
rulers who refused to accept their authority. But as 
the Mughals became powerful many other rulers also 
joined them voluntarily. The Rajputs are a good 
example of this. Many of them married their daughters 
into Mughal families and received high positions. But 
many resisted as well. 

OUR PASTS — II 50 


The Sisodiya Rajputs refused to accept Mughal 
authority for a long time. Once defeated, however, they 
were honourably treated by the Mughals, given their 
lands (watan) back as assignments (watan jagir). The 
careful balance between defeating but not humiliating 
their opponents enabled the Mughals to extend their 
influence over many kings and chieftains. But it was 
difficult to keep this balance all the time. Look at Table 
1 again – note that Aurangzeb insulted Shivaji when he 
came to accept Mughal authority. What was the 
consequence of this insult? 

Mansabdars and jagirdars 

As the empire expanded to encompass different regions 
the Mughals recruited diverse bodies of people. From 
a small nucleus of Turkish nobles (Turanis) they 
expanded to include Iranians, Indian Muslims, 
Afghans, Rajputs, Marathas and other groups. Those 
who joined Mughal service were enrolled as 
mansabdars. 

The term mansabdar refers to an individual who 
holds a mansab, meaning a position or rank. It was a 
grading system used by the Mughals to fix (1) rank, 

(2) salary and (3) military responsibilities. Rank and 
salary were determined by a numerical value called zat. 
The higher the zat, the more prestigious was the noble’s 
position in court and the larger his salary. 
The mansabdar’s military responsibilities required 
him to maintain a specified number of sawar or 
cavalrymen. The mansabdar brought his cavalrymen 
for review, got them registered, their horses branded 
and then received money to pay them as salary. 

Mansabdars received their salaries as revenue 
assignments called jagirs which were somewhat like 
iqtas. But unlike muqtis, most mansabdars did not 
actually reside in or administer their jagirs. They only 
had rights to the revenue of their assignments which 
was collected for them by their servants while the 

Zat ranking 
Nobles with a zat 
of 5,000 were 
ranked higher than 
those of 1,000. 
In Akbar’s reign 
there were 29 
mansabdars with a 
rank of 5,000 zat; 
by Aurangzeb’s 
reign the number 
of mansabdars 
had increased to 
79. Would this 
have meant more 
expenditure for 
the state? 
51 THE MUGHAL DYNASTY 


Fig. 5 
A mansabdar on 
march with his 
sawars. 

Fig. 6 
Details from a 
miniature from Shah 
Jahan’s reign depicting 
corruption in his 
father’s administration. 

(1) A corrupt officer 
recieves a bribe and 
(2) a tax-collector 
punishes poor 
peasants. 
mansabdars themselves 
served in some other part of 
the country. 

In Akbar’s reign these 
jagirs were carefully 
assessed so that their 
revenues were roughly 
equal to the salary of the 
mansadar. By Aurangzeb’s 
reign this was no longer the 
case and the actual revenue 

collected was often less than the granted sum. There 
was also a huge increase in the number of mansabdars 
which meant a long wait before they received a jagir. 
These and other factors created a shortage in the 
number of jagirs. As a result, many jagirdars tried 
to extract as much revenue as possible while they had 
a jagir. Aurangzeb was unable to control these 
developments in the last years of his reign and the 
peasantry therefore suffered tremendously. 

Zabt and zamindars 

The main source of income available to Mughal rulers 
was tax on the produce of the peasantry. In most places, 
peasants paid taxes through the rural elites, that is, 
the headman or the local chieftain. The Mughals 
used one term – zamindars – to describe all 
intermediaries, whether they were local headmen 

of villages or powerful chieftains. 

Akbar’s revenue minister, Todar Mal, carried 
out a careful survey of crop yields, prices 
and areas cultivated for a ten-year period, 
1570-1580. On the basis of this data, tax was 
fixed on each crop in cash. Each province 
was divided into revenue circles with its own 
schedule of revenue rates for individual 
crops. This revenue system was known as 
zabt. It was prevalent in those areas where 
Mughal administrators could survey the land 

OUR PASTS — II 52 


and keep very careful accounts. This was not possible 
in provinces such as Gujarat and Bengal. 

In some areas the zamindars exercised a great deal 
of power. The exploitation by Mughal administrators 
could drive them to rebellion. Sometimes zamindars 
and peasants of the same caste allied in rebelling against 
Mughal authority. These peasant revolts challenged the 
stability of the Mughal Empire from the end of the 
seventeenth century. 

Akbar Nama and Ain-i Akbari 
Akbar ordered one of his close friends and 
courtiers, Abul Fazl, to write a history of his 
reign. Abul Fazl wrote a three volume history 
of Akbar’s reign titled, Akbar Nama. The first 
volume dealt with Akbar’s ancestors and the 
second volume recorded the events of 
Akbar’s reign. The third volume is the Ain-i 
Akbari. It deals with Akbar’s administration, 
household, army, the revenues and geography 
of his empire. It also provides rich details 
about the traditions and culture of the people 
living in India. The most interesting aspect 
about the Ain-i Akbari is its rich statistical 
details about things as diverse as crops, 
yields, prices, wages and revenues. 
Fig. 7 
Akbar recieving the Akbar Nama 
from Abul Fazl. 
A closer look–Akbar’s policies 

The broad features of administration were laid down 
by Akbar and were elaborately discussed by Abul Fazl 
in his book the Akbar Nama, in particular in its last 
volume, the Ain-i Akbari. 

Abul Fazl explained that the empire was divided into 
provinces called subas, governed by a subadar who 
carried out both political and military functions. Each 
province also had a financial officer or diwan. For the 
maintenance of peace and order in his province, the 
subadar was supported by other officers such as the 

53 THE MUGHAL DYNASTY 


military paymaster (bakhshi), the minister in charge of 
religious and charitable patronage (sadr), military 
commanders (faujdars) and the town police commander 
(kotwal). 

Nur Jahan’s influence in Jahangir’s court 
Mehrunnisa, married the Emperor Jahangir 
in 1611 and received the title Nur Jahan. 
She remained extremely loyal and 
supportive to the monarch. As a mark of 
honour, Jahangir struck silver coins bearing 
his own titles on one side and on the other 
the inscription “struck in the name of the 
Queen Begum, Nur Jahan”. 
The adjoining document is an order 
(farman) of Nur Jahan. The square seal states, 
“Command of her most Sublime and 
Elevated Majesty Nur Jahan Padshah Begum”. 
The round seal states, “by the sun of Shah 
Jahangir she became as brilliant as the moon; may 
Nur Jahan Padshah be the lady of the age”. 
Fig. 8 
Nur Jahan’s farman. 
Akbar’s nobles commanded large armies and had 
access to large amounts of revenue. While they were 
loyal the empire functioned efficiently but by the end of 
the seventeenth century many nobles had built 
independent networks of their own. Their loyalties to 
the empire were weakened by their own self-interest. 

While Akbar was at Fatehpur Sikri during the 1570s 
he started discussions on religion with the ulama, 
Brahmanas, Jesuit priests who were Roman Catholics, 
and Zoroastrians. These discussions took place in the 
ibadat khana. He was interested in the religion and 
social customs of different people. It made him realise 
that religious scholars who emphasised ritual and 
dogma
dogmadogmadogmadogmadogma were often bigots
bigotsbigotsbigotsbigots

bigots. Their teachings created 
divisions and disharmony amongst his subjects. This 
eventually led Akbar to the idea of sulh-i kul or 

Dogma 
DogmaDogmaDogmaDogmaDogma 
A statement or an 
interpretation 
declared as 
authoritative with 
the expectation 
that it would be 
followed without 
question 

Bigot 
BigotBigotBigotBigotBigot 
An individual who 
is intolerant of 
another person’s 
religious beliefs or 
culture 

OUR PASTS — II 54 


“universal peace”. This idea of tolerance did not 
discriminate between people of different religions in 
his realm. Instead it focused on a system of ethics – 
honesty, justice, peace – that was universally 
applicable. Abul Fazl helped Akbar in framing a vision 
of governance around this idea of sulh-i kul. This 
principle of governance was followed by Jahangir and 
Shah Jahan as well. 

sulh-i kul 
Jahangir, Akbar’s son, described his father’s policy of 
sulh-i kul in the following words: 
“As in the wide expanse of the divine compassion there is room 
for all classes and the followers of all creeds, so … in his 
Imperial dominions, which on all sides were limited only the 
sea, there was room for the professors of opposite religions, 
and for beliefs, good and bad, and the road to intolerance was 
closed. Sunnis and Shias met in one mosque and Christians 
and Jews in one church to pray. He consistently followed the 
principle of ‘universal peace’ (sulh-i kul).” 
55


Fig. 9 
Akbar holding 
discussions with 
learned individuals of 
different faiths in the 
ibadat khana. 

? 
Can you identify 
the Jesuit priests 
in this picture? 

THE MUGHAL DYNASTY 


The mughal empire in theseventeenth century and after 

The administrative and military efficiency of the Mughal 
Empire led to great economic and commercial 
prosperity. International travellers described it as the 
fabled land of wealth. But these same visitors were also 
appalled at the state of poverty that existed side by 
side with the greatest opulence. The inequalities were 
glaring. Documents from the twentieth year of Shah 
Jahan’s reign inform us that the highest ranking 
mansabdars were only 445 in number out of a total of 
8,000. This small number – a mere 5.6 per cent of the 
total number of mansabdars – received 61.5 per cent 
of the total estimated revenue of the empire as salaries 
for themselves and their troopers. 

The Mughal emperors and their mansabdars spent 
a great deal of their income on salaries and goods. 
This expenditure benefited the artisans and peasantry 
who supplied them with goods and produce. But the 
scale of revenue collection left very little for investment 
in the hands of the primary producers – the peasant 
and the artisan. The poorest amongst them lived 
from hand to mouth and they could hardly consider 
investing in additional resources – tools and supplies 

– to increase productivity. The wealthier peasantry and 
artisanal groups, the merchants and bankers profited 
in this economic world. 
The enormous wealth and resources commanded 
by the Mughal elite made them an extremely powerful 
group of people in the late seventeenth century. As the 
authority of the Mughal emperor slowly declined, his 
servants emerged as powerful centres of power in the 
regions. They constituted new dynasties and held 
command of provinces like Hyderabad and Awadh. 
Although they continued to recognise the Mughal 
emperor in Delhi as their master, by the eighteenth 
century the provinces of the empire had consolidated 
their independent political identities. We will read more 
about them in Chapter 10. 

OUR PASTS — II 56 


Queens and kings 

There were several great monarchs – all near contemporaries — in 
different parts of the world in the sixteenth century. 

These included Queen Elizabeth I (1558-1603) of England. Elizabeth 
was the last ruler of a dynasty known as the Tudors. Elizabeth’s rule 
was marked by several conflicts – foremost amongst these were 
conflicts between the Roman Catholic Church and the Protestants, 
who were attempting to reform the Church. Elizabeth sided with the 
latter, and tried to establish the independence of the Church of England 
from Roman control, even as she adopted several practices of the 
Roman Church. She came into conflict with Philip II, the powerful 
ruler of Spain, and defeated a Spanish effort to attack England. Under 
her patronage English sailors harassed the Spanish fleet and made it 
difficult for them to control the wealth of the Americas. She was a 
great patron of the arts and supported the famous English playwright 
William Shakespeare. A poet named Edmund Spenser wrote a long 
epic poem called The Faerie Queene in her praise. 

Find out more about Akbar’s other contemporaries – the ruler of 
Ottoman Turkey, Sultan Suleyman, also known as “al-Qanuni” or the 
lawgiver (1520-1566); the Safavid ruler of Iran, Shah Abbas (15881629); 
and the more controversial Russian ruler, Czar Ivan IV 
Vasilyevich, also called “Ivan the terrible” (1530-1584). 

Babur and Akbar were about your age when 
they became rulers. Imagine you have 
inherited a kingdom. How would you make 

ImagineImagineImagineImagineImagineyour kingdom stable and prosperous? 

Let’s recallLet’s recallLet’s recallLet’s recallLet’s recall 
1. Match the following 
mansab Marwar 
Mongol governor 
Sisodiya Rajput Uzbeg 
Rathor Rajput Mewar 
Nur Jahan Babur 
subadar rank 

57 THE MUGHAL DYNASTY 


KEYWORDS 
..
Mughal 
mansab 
jagir 
zat 
sawar 
sulh-i kul 
primogeniture 
coparcenary 
zabt 
zamindar 
..
KEYWORDS 
..
Mughal 
mansab 
jagir 
zat 
sawar 
sulh-i kul 
primogeniture 
coparcenary 
zabt 
zamindar 
..
2. Fill in the blanks 
(a) 
The capital of Mirza Hakim, Akbar’s half-brother, 
was____________. 
(b) 
The five Deccan Sultanates were Berar, Khandesh, 
Ahmadnagar, _____________ and 
_________________. 
(c) 
If zat determined a mansabdar’s rank and salary, 
sawar indicated his ____________ . 
(d) 
Abul Fazl, Akbar’s friend and counsellor, helped 
him frame the idea of ____________________ 
so that he could govern a society composed of 
many religions, cultures and castes. 
3. What were the central provinces under the control of 
the Mughals? 
4. What was the relationship between the mansabdar 
and the jagir? 
Let’s understandLet’s understandLet’s understandLet’s understandLet’s understand 
5. What was the role of the zamindar in Mughal 
administration? 
6. 
How were the debates with religious scholars important 
in the formation of Akbar’s ideas on governance? 
7. 
Why did the Mughals emphasise their Timurid and 
not their Mughal descent? 
OUR PASTS — II 58 


Let’s discuss 
Let’s discussLet’s discussLet’s discussLet’s discussLet’s discuss Let’s discussLet’s discussLet’s discussLet’s discussLet’s discuss 

8. How important was the income from land revenue to 
the stability of the Mughal Empire? 
9. 
Why was it important for the Mughals to recruit 
mansabdars from diverse backgrounds and not just 
Turanis and Iranis? 
10. Like the Mughal Empire, India today is also made up 
of many social and cultural units. Does this pose a 
challenge to national integration? 
11. Peasants were vital for the economy of the Mughal 
Empire. Do you think that they are as important today? 
Has the gap in the income between the rich and the 
poor in India changed a great deal from the period of 
the Mughals? 
Let’s do 
Let’s doLet’s doLet’s doLet’s doLet’s do 

12. The Mughal Empire left its impact on the different 
regions of the subcontinent in a variety of ways. Find 
out if it had any impact in the city/village/region in 
which you live. 
59 THE MUGHAL DYNASTY 


